there we decided to visualize opioid death data;
in New York state from 2003 to 2019 our data;
source is owned and published by the New York State;
Department of Health and it consisted of Year New;
York state county and a number of opioid deaths;
that occurred that occurred in that county per;
year so to begin we first must use the drop down;
to select a specific County in New York state so;
for this demonstration I'll choose Albany and from;
there we get two visualizations that get generated;
first the first visualization is a bar chart that;
shows the number of deaths that occurred in the;
specific chosen County each year hovering;
over the bar chart will reveal a tool tip;
that again shows a year and the total death;
count in that county for that specific year&;
next we have a map of New York State the map;
consists of a heat map where the darker shade of;
blue represents a greater total number of deaths;
that occurred in the county from the specified;
timeline which is 2003 to 2019 highlighting;
over accounting will reveal the name of the;
county the total number of deaths that occurred;
and the county visualized visualized in pink;
is the county chosen from the drop down that we;
specified in the beginning of the demonstration